1) Referentially Transparent—in any program, the expression can be replaced by its result without changing the meaning of the program. And we say that a function is pure if its body is RT, assuming RT inputs.

2) A pure function is modular and composable because it separates the logic of the computation itself from "what to do with the result & how to obtain the input"; it is a black box. A pure function has no observable effect on the execution of the program other than to compute a result given its inputs; we say that it has no side effects.

3) Since the main method itself is called once by the operating environment and never from anywhere in our program, referential transparency is not violated.

4) By-name param: The unevaluated form of an expression is often called a thunk . Thunks are represented at runtime in Scala as a value of type scala.Function0 , which you can see if you're curious by inspecting the signature of non-strict functions in the .class file the Scala compiler generates.

5) A function having the same argument and return type is called an endofunction.

6) A monoid is a type together with an associative binary operation ( op ) which has an identity element ( zero )
    The laws of associativity and identity are collectively called the monoid laws . A monoid consists of:
		*	Some type A
		*	A binary associative operation that takes two values of type A and combines them into one.
		*	A value of type A that is an identity for that operation.
				
				trait Monoid[A] {
				  def op(a1: A, a2: A): A
				  def zero: A
				}
8) A function is typically partial because it makes some assumptions about its inputs that are not implied by the input types.

9) If the evaluation of an expression runs forever or throws an error instead of returning a definite value, we say that the expression does not terminate , or that it evaluates to bottom . A function f is strict if the expression f(x) evaluates to bottom for all x that evaluate to bottom.

10) The uniformity of representation makes composition easier.

11) Aren't imperative and functional programming opposites?
Absolutely not. Remember, functional programming is simply programming without side-effects. Imperative programming is about programming with statements that modify some program state, and as we've seen it's entirely reasonable to maintain state without side-effects.  Functional programming has excellent support for writing imperative programs, with the added benefit that such programs can be reasoned about equationally because they are referentially transparent.

12) A function having the same argument and return type is called an endofunction. 

13) In purely functional programming you don't tell the computer what to do as such but rather you tell it what stuff is.

14) if a function is called twice with the same parameters, it's guaranteed to return the same result. That's called referential transparency 

15) Calling functions with too few parameters creates a partial function. if we call a function with too few parameters (i.e. partially apply it), we get back a function that takes the number of parameters that we left out

16) A monoid homomorphism f between monoids M and N obeys the following general law for all values x and y :
      M.op(f(x), f(y)) == f(N.op(x, y))

17) Sometimes there will be a homomorphism in both directions between two monoids. Such a relationship is called a monoid isomorphism ("iso-" meaning "equal") and we say that the two monoids are isomorphic.

18) Functions are “value constructors”—they produce values when we supply parameters.

19) Functor Laws:

    Identity: calling map with the iden ty func on is the same as doing nothing:
      fa.map(a => a) == fa
    Compositon: mapping with two func ons f and g is the same as mapping with f and then mapping with g :
      fa.map(g(f(_))) == fa.map(f).map(g)

20) import scala.language.higherKinds
      to supress compiler warning for higher kinded types f[_].
    or add 
      scalacOptions += "-language:higherKinds" in build.sbt

21) Functor also provides the lift method, which converts a func on of type A => B to one that operates over a functor and has type F[A] => F[B]. 
 
22) A monad is a mechanism for sequencing computations.

23) All monads are functors, but not all functors are monads. Since Monad extends Functor.

24) An object is a closure with multiple method. A closure is an object with a singlr method.

25) Using fold is better than simple recursion.

26) Everything that is a monad is also a functor as monad being a subclass of functor.

27) Applicative functors know how to apply a function wrapped in functor context.

28) Applicative functor can combine multiple functors into one product.

29) We should think of map not as an iteraton patern, but as a way of sequencing computatons on values ignoring some complicaton dictated by the relevant data type.

30) One common use for Readers is dependency injec on. If we have a number of opera ons that all depend on some external configura on, we can chain them together using a Reader to produce one large opera on that accepts the configura on as a parameter and runs our program in the order specified.

31) Side effects are essentially invisible inputs to, or outputs from, functions.

32) Types are not classes but they are more like sets. A type is just a name for a set of things that can be used as inputs or outputs.
